i don't get enjoyment out of it i'm not
one of those people where you know i'm
going to make my hamburger
and i'm feeling the meat and i'm just
like yeah you got
blown up you got blown out cow yeah when
they cut your head off
you know i'm not like doing that i'm
kind of like grossed out and disgusted
when i have to like
go through animal corpse it's gross to
me it is
it's nasty
[Music]
understandably in 2021 we have a lot of
talk
about virtue signaling but what i see is
people losing touch
with what virtue signalling really means
and why it really matters and this is
something that cuts across
the whole political spectrum left right
and center
all kinds of different situations and
scenarios
virtue signaling
is a problem because people are
signaling virtues that they do not
in fact have
and the undercurrent the irony
is that when you meet people who really
have experience in those fields
of human endeavor who really do have
those virtues
even if it's dubious or questionable
whether or not these things are virtues
to be had
they don't talk that way they don't act
that way
they don't feel that way at all
i get fan mail on this channel for all
kinds of different things
once in a while because of my
discussions
of my own experience with humanitarian
work
nobody in their right mind could
possibly say
that when i describe my own experience
with humanitarian work
i'm virtue signaling because i don't
even think it was virtuous
right now when i was in cambodia
when i was in laos both doing
humanitarian work and attempting to do
humanitarian work
two different things i sometimes met
people who had just arrived there
from africa they've been doing
humanitarian work
in africa like sometimes ethiopia
different parts of africa
southern west africa wherever they were
and you know
when i met them there was no virtue
signaling you never once
met one of these guys and they thought
they'd accomplish something great
they'd show up they'd be like yeah you
know
i just got here from somalia i remember
one case this guy just got there from
sudan
just showed up there was civil war type
conditions going on in sudan at that
time
yeah you know i just got here from sudan
oh the project was a failure about eight
ways out of ten
everything was messed up we tried hard
there was a big budget
and we didn't really accomplish anything
we wanted to accomplish
but i mean i guess we meant well maybe
we did more harm than good
maybe we shouldn't have done this
project at all to begin with you know
and then they they meet a guy like me
and i'd be saying
oh yeah you know i just finished this
project here
and i mean you know it was a failure and
i think it maybe did more harm than good
we'd be comparing notes we'd be
comparing experiences man to man
and there's no virtue signaling right
there may actually be
some virtue there when you talk to
people who've really
fought in wars just because this was an
autobiographical account from what
people call the vietnam war
this is actually on the the lotion
border this particular story
i read this guy's account what he
actually did during the war
and it was like yeah there was one
battle that took place in one night
so suddenly that you know if you were
asleep you would have missed it there
was one really brief battle
and then they were in a siege where they
did nothing
but watch and wait for five years
and then they had another battle i think
that battle lasted two or three days and
that was his experience of the war
so he was at war for like more than five
years two battles
five years of waiting in between what do
you think if you talk to the guy i mean
i was just reading his written account
but i've met and talked to all kinds of
soldiers
been all kinds of do you think there's
there's virtue signaling there
and there may be some real virtue there
may be
some real courage and heroism and
steadfastness to be celebrated and
appreciated by this guy
might be you know you look at this and
say look man not everybody could do
what you did in the war even if what you
did was just
ration out your food and make sure you
didn't starve and keep the camp clean
and wake up every day and watch and wait
the enemy you know there were a few
bombs and bullets going off
but basically nothing happened for five
years but hey you didn't
you didn't give up you didn't lose your
nerve and that's why eventually you won
i guess you won your little
victory you made your little tiny
contribution to this war in which more
than a million people died
you know there's there's something
there's something if you want to you can
have a parade
if you want a parade is virtue signal
right
it's a celebration of heroism or
something something that may not even
really be
virtuous okay what we have going on in
the 21st century
the reason why it's a problem
right on the one hand is that nobody
wants to really question the virtues
you know five years you go to university
you get a university education in five
years
if you do a lot spending five years of
your life
dug in holding a gun staring at the
enemy
watching waiting eating rat food rations
what what are we celebrating here
you know is it is it a virtue would you
do it for five years right now
you want to go to syria you want to go
to myanmar you want to go fight for
democracy in myanmar you want to go sit
sit in the trench for five years maybe
accomplish nothing and maybe lose maybe
you're one of the guys who dies
maybe you're one of the guys who lays
down is that a virtue does that interest
you
huh you want to be a hero you want
people to say you're a hero
you want people to have a [ __ ] parade
with your name on the floor is that what
you want
myanmar is open for business civil war
over yet guys
war for democracy some of you it's what
you've been saying
on instagram and facebook you've wanted
your whole life
right here's your chance to be a hero
who who wants it who wants some right
are these things
virtuous there's something really
profound to think about there right and
there's something
to think about how it applies in life
nobody wants to question
the virtues right and the problem is
people are lining up to signal virtues
they don't have to try to lay claim to
a kind of experience of the human
condition they've never even
thought all the way through and if they
were out having some real world
experience even if you weren't doing it
yourself
if you met people who are war veterans
if you met people who'd done
humanitarian work
in sudan in ethiopia or cambodia you'd
start to get the picture
of what people learn from you know the
imperfection
and tragedy of human nature from the
real world struggle to do something good
to just be a decent human being in a
world where there's so little decency
okay because you can show up at a
refugee camp and all you see is
prostitution and gambling and corruption
if not kidnapping and human trafficking
and worse
right there were all these i wrote
articles about i wrote exposes showing
it there were these humanitarian
projects in in northern laos they were
supposedly feeding and clothing the poor
and they were getting
you know 14 year old girls pregnant they
were getting involved with
you know statutory rape underage sex and
prostitution and you know these
the so-called humanitarian workers are
the only people with with
money to spend in villages full of
starving people and this is
this is what happened the catholic
church has a story of that going back
centuries right this ain't new okay
um and you know
i think the virtue that's the easiest to
fake
of all is compassion
is people saying that they care
is people saying that they feel bad
for others when the fact is
they don't care they don't feel that way
quite apart from the fact that if they
did have any other
feelings of that kind they're not about
to actually get up and
do something about it
i think that vegans for the most part
are pretty selfless
and not for the reason you guys think uh
sure they are saving animals and i
personally do
like most animals some more than others
which is why i don't eat a dog or a cat
which is a weird
um argument that they like to use
sometimes but
as much as i appreciate their
heroism of saving animals by not eating
them
so that other people can eat them um
the real reason that vegans are so
selfless is because like
they just managed to
sacrifice literally sacrifice themselves
for it
so yeah i have considered for the sake
of avoiding the grossness
of eating animal corpse going vegan and
because it's nice to
help the animals but i just don't think
i'm self
selfless enough to literally sacrifice
myself and my sanity for an
animal if i were so selfish i really
would go vegan i don't like animal
cruelty
i'm a huge advocate of um
animals being treated nicely and it's
like oh well how do you do that when you
eat meat because
[ __ ] we gotta survive that's why
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice